.. title: Two Years without Facebook
.. url: http://www.lguruprasad.in/blog/2013/11/19/two-years-without-facebook/
.. date: 2015-11-07
.. source: Stumbled upon his blog through github

I stumbled upon this blog post by Guru Prasad, where he describes spending two
years without Facebook. He did it for privacy reasons and because Facebook is
collecting way too much information than they should. He is also annoyed by the
fact that Facebook is not as much a medium to stay in touch but a stream of
photos and shares choosen by the algorithm of Facebook often to sell you
targeted ads.

I also tried such experiment last to last year, but that for two weeks not two
years. And no one will care if you are there or not, most of the people won't
even notice your absence. I also hate the fact that facebook track your every
mouse gesture your every moment you spend on their website. I definitely don't
mean to say that social media is evil phenomenon but that doesn't mean
everything is good about them and I want to take the bad parts out. For the
similar privacy/power balance reasons I want to move away from Google services.
I already use DuckDuckGo for search and I've also diched Google Chrome for
firefox. I'll try to spend some time this winter finding alternatives to gmail
and how I can move away from it.

I'm not diching Facebook yet, but I guess I can partially mitigate its bad
parts. One of to do it would probably be using a command line client for
facebook in which I choose who's posts and shares I subscribe to. I don't know
if anyone has done it yet, but I think that should be possible given the api by
facebook. Maybe I can also use elinks?
