.. url: https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/ksummit-discuss/2016-August/003580.html
.. title: Community vs Compliance
.. date: Sunday 28 August 2016 03:08:08 AM IST

This a very interesting discussion about GPL law suits and GPL enforcement. The
main point of debate is whether to use law suits to enforce GPL or not. Both of
the parties agree that having upstream contributions and user freedoms are
important but disagree about the particular methods to pursue that goal. The
side which pushes for law suits or threats argue that otherwise companies won't
comply, we don't get the code back and users loose on freedom. The other side
argues that law suits or their threats turn companies into law suits turn
companies into enemies. They are less likely to coorperate, meaning worse
software. Instead the way should be through internal negotiations, and changing
the culture from inside, companies eventually do contribute upstream they also
benifit from it and also because the law requires them to.

My personal opinion is that GPL is important, and the possibility of existance
of a law suit. If a company is going very antagonistic there needs to be a law
suits because otherwise when the companies know that no one realistic change of
law suit then GPL is powerless. Stallman himself gave examples of cases where
they were able to get GPL compliance simply about asking companies to do and
telling them that they are legally required to do so. So to me the question is
really about threshold, not the fact that they should be law suit or not,

Anyway as Linus says it is often easier to change things by working with your
opponents rathan working against them but against them should appear like a
realistic senario when things don't work out.

