.. url: https://web.archive.org/web/20160203040412/http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/programs/transcripts/1319.html
.. title: Currents of Fear
.. date: Fri 05 Jan 2018 12:14:58 AM IST
.. tag: webnotes


This transcript of news sessions was about fears of cancer from electro
magnetic radiation from power lines. It was pretty long, but interesting. I
came here from the article on "Texas Sharpshooter fallacy". the fallacy goes
like this. If you take a lot of random points then some of them will cluster,
so a Texan can randomly shoot in his backyard and then draw circle around a
cluster which he is very likely to find, and say "yay I'm a sharp shooter".
Well the fallacy is more general. If you take a lot of random data you'll find
some pattern, definitely. Assuming cancer is randomly distributed, some of
these people getting cancer will be in a small geographic area and of some of
these groups you'll find power lines.

What the Swedish study did was they tested for 800 different types of
alingments that might be linked to radiations by power lines and they find
Lukemia is correlated and a news agency published it. Susequent studies in
Sweden and elsewhere found such effect.

There are many speakers in the discussion and there is this particular guy who
speaks for protecting people from radiation though power lines. His argument is
similar to Taleb's precautionary principle, that human body is complex and we
don't understand it enough hence we should be careful. I compare it with
Taleb's argument on GMO, though the important differences is that in GMO the
harm is large and systemic. The harm is not that someone will fall ill from
eating GMO but that GMO can disrupt the whole ecosystem and we don't know
enough of biology to be sure that they won't. Another difference is about size
of effect, in the power lines case, the health effects if present are likely to
be small because otherwise we would have known them, though in GMO the
disruptions can be very very large, I remember some episodes from discovery
channel where introduction of a new specify in an unhabitat completely
distroyed the habitat. The GMO plant can grow quickly, interbred with other non
GMO plants nearby and spread pretty fast.

The effect size part is very important. There can be millions of things which
"can be" negatively affecting your health according to VastuShastra the
architecture of your house affects your health (maybe though light and
ventilation), the material of your utensils might make a difference, the
lightint you use at your home might make a difference, the method of
preperation of food makes a difference, there are all sorts of things and all
sorts of reasons you might think these thigns might make a difference. Because
there are so many thigns, it is impossible to take care of everyone of them,
and you cannot know if the effects are real (without taking humgous effort of
carrying very long, longitudal experimental studies), so maybe just ignore all
these and focus on things which have stronger effect.
