.. url: http://www.dw.com/en/why-isnt-the-nsa-a-hot-topic-in-the-us-elections/a-19207455
.. title: Why isn't the NSA a hot topic in the US elections?
.. date: Thursday 28 April 2016 08:45:55 PM IST
.. tags: webnotes

The article talks about how NSA surveillance should be one of the topics of the
US presidential election but isn't. It compares the situation with Germany
where the population is very privacy conscious. It brings out important facts
but doesn't connect them well, it says that German population is privacy
conscious because of the human rights violation by Eastern Block Germany and
earlier by the Nazi secret police, but it reaches the conclusion that
surveillance isn't a hot topic because it is very nuanced and doesn't make good
catch phrase. But every topic is nuanced if you look deep enough and every
issue has only one answer on the surface. Politicians don't generally aim to
change the norm during the election but rather try to attract a sect of people
who already agrees with her/him. So the question here should be why does the
German population care and US doesn't. Well one of the answers can be history
as the author already mentioned, there have been thought policing in the
McCarthy era too but not sure about the extent to which it affected the white
population. Another important factor should be the corporate influence in
politics and maybe media in America compared to Germany. Corporate surveillance
goes hand in hand in government surveillance, if corporates doesn't support an
issue the issue remains unattractive for the politicians. Also it would be an
interesting exercise to study the relation between the profits a parent company
make through breaches of privacy and its coverage on surveillance.

